Title: Airport Extreme works THIS WAY. EAT IT.
Date: 2010-04-07 21:01
Author: Dave O'Connor
Tags: imported, apple airport dhcp
Category: Tech

So, I'm getting increasingly annoyed at Apple's railroading of people's
use cases (no, this has nothing to do with the iPad).

It's only after I started using a Nexus One with android that I realised
how shite the iPhone was in a lot of ways. Case in point: The one thing
that I wanted my phone to do wasn't implemented yet, so [I did it].
The concept of doing that on iPhone without jumping through a ridiculous
number of hoops is alien to me.

Another case in point happened this evening, or at least a symptom of
it.

I'd recently gotten a [Soekris net5501] to act as a home dhcp/dns/etc.
server, having gotten tired/bored of just letting the Airport extreme do
everything. I wanted to use DynDNS properly, and I wanted something I
could leave on when I go on business trips (So I can leave power usage
monitoring on, etc).

Sounds like a plan, right? So after fiddling with getting the Soekris
installed, I plugged everything in, set up ISC dhcpd and Bind, and then
went to Airport Utility to turn off DHCP on the Airport Extreme.

Except, you can't.

You can't actually turn off DHCP, without putting the device into bridge
mode. You literally cannot run a NAT network using an Airport Extreme
where it's not the DHCP server for your LAN.

Rather than ditching my Airport on some unsuspecting fanboy and doing
research to find a good 802.11n router, I just set a DHCP pool size of 1
and got on with my life.

However, this basically reinforced my increasingly negative opinion of
what Apple is up to these days. Apple products are increasingly not for
people who know what they want.

As a disclaimer, I own an ipod and use a macbook pro as my only computer
for day-to-day use. They work fine, and are great products. Which makes
it a shame that a lot of their other stuff falls down so hard.

Aside: here's how to get ISC dhcpd to ignore a certain MAC address if
you have a stupid device you want to talk to another dhcp server:

    :::python
    host stupidhost {
      hardware ethernet MA:CA:DD:RE:SS;
      deny booting;
    }

More in a bit.

  [I did it]: https://uk.androlib.com/android.application.net-andvari-bluetoothcondition-AwCq.aspx
  [Soekris net5501]: http://soekris.com/products/net5501-1.html
