Title: Alive and Thinkin'
Date: 2011-05-26 13:55
Author: Dave O'Connor
Tags: imported, brain, electronics, life, me, meta, twitter, update
Category: Log

I am alive. Apologies to folks who were following the electronics stuff
-- the short version is that it worked, although I didn't get to use it
'in anger' as such. The other thing I learned is that when traveling
through UK customs on the week of a royal wedding, having a small
plastic box with wires coming out of it and a 9v battery strapped to it
with tape is not a clever thing to have in your car (thankfully the
customs official had a sense of humour).

Since then I've been doing a bunch of for-money work, and only took time
out this week to relax. I occasionally take a week off to hang around at
home and get 'life administrivia' done. Think of it as a concrete block
on the see-saw of work-life balance.

I've been playing around a bit with generalised messaging for
[domotics] updates. I'm thinking of a centralised controller that can
accept events from various signals, such as the [Current Cost] meter,
a wifi device coming in range, or a small IC hanging off the doorbell
circuit, for example. A lot of these devices don't have particularly
fully-functional network stacks, so I'll have to bite the bullet and get
the handful of ZigBee radios I got recently working. Doorbell will be
the fun one, I think. My house already has a (private) twitter account,
and DMs me for various stuff (unknown hosts grabbing a DHCP lease on the
network, etc.). Adding more stuff to this is the idea.

I'm also interested in the idea of cloud applications with local storage
or local encryption keys -- so all your data is stored encrypted on the
server side, and only you have the keys, so the content is decrypted at
render-time. Stuff like [1password] does this with secure stuff like
password databases, but I think web browsing machines are zippy enough
to do this for userdata. I have to see if it's been done already (it
probably has), but I want to do some fiddling with it.

So yes, same old. Too much science to do, never enough time.

  [domotics]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_automation
  [Current Cost]: https://www.currentcost.com/
  [1password]: https://agilebits.com/onepassword
